Hello everyone and welcome to the solution to the eggdrop problem.
This is a really good riddle because it actually has an algorithmic background.
It's kind of based on a binary search solution.
So let's go ahead and walk through a solution.
So let's say you were just going to start from the tenth floor and go up the floors and multiples of
10.
Then at the first egg breaks say the floor number 20.
You know you just need to check all the floors between 11 and 19 with the second egg to see which floor
.
It won't break.
In that simple example member we're kind of looking at subproblems right now that worst case number
of drops is 19.
If the threshold was 99th floor then you would have to drop the first egg 10 times and the second egg
nine times in a linear fashion.
So what's the best solution.
We want to minimize this worst case number drops.
And for that we'll generalize the problem and floors again.
Another good tactic in an interview situation.
Generalizing problems ought to be that step value for the first egg.
Is it still going to be every 10 floors.
You know if we have 200 floors is this that value is still going to be 10.
The point to note here is that we're trying to minimize the worst case number of drops which happens
if the threshold is at the highest floor.
So our steps should be of some value which reduces the number of drops at the first egg.
So what we're going to do is assume we take some step value m initially.
So if every subsequent step is minus one now we have m plus and minus one plus and minus two plus so
on and so on until you get all the way to one equals and and this is actually just equal to m multiplied
by M Plus 1 divided by two equals.
And so this is actually just simply a binary search.
And that's really what this question is trying to get at if n is equal to 100 here then the letter M
can be solved for and it's going to be equal to thirteen point six five.
If you have 100 floors since you can't draw from a decimal of a floor you have to run that up to 14
which means the worst case scenario is when the threshold is in the first 14 floors.
It's the number of drops being 14.
All right.
So you can find plenty of other explanations by simply googling the term 2 eggs 100 floors.
In case you want a better breakdown of how you can use the binary search in order to solve this problem
.
OK that's it for this Rudel.
Make sure you know this one.
Again look up other explanations in case you want a more detailed solution.
But that's all there is to it.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture